>>> A WIDE SWATH OF THE DEEP
SOUTH IS NOW ENCASED IN A LAYER
OFITIS.
AND THE STORM RESPONSIBLE FOR
THAT IS POISED TO BRING MORE
WINTER WEATHER TO THE EASTERN
SEABOARD.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOOD RIF.
>> JIEFL.
>> GWEN EIFFEL.
WE LOOK AT THE VALUE OF
MAMMOGRAMS AS NEW RESULTS FROM A
DECADES LONG STUDY RAISED
QUESTIONS ABOUT THEIR
EFFECTIVENESS.
>>> PLUS A TECHNOLOGY REVOLUTION
ALLOWING ANYONE TO TURN AN IDEA
AND A DESIGN INTO A DO IT
YOURSELF CREATION.
>> WITH THE PRINTERS I V. BEEN
IN THAT SITUATION WHERE I'M
ASTOUNDED TO BE HOLDING A OBJECT
I DESIGNED JUST HOURS AGO.
>> THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
SHOWERS WE'RE COVERING ON
NewsHour
>> Ifill: THERE WAS NO REST FOR
THE WINTER-WEARY ACROSS THE
SOUTH TODAY.
THE LATEST STORM TO HIT THE
REGION SENT POWER OUTAGES
HEADING TOWARD THE HALF-MILLION
MARK.
NEWSHOUR CORRESPONDENT KWAME
HOLMAN HAS OUR REPORT.
>> Reporter: THE STINGING SLEET
STARTED FALLING IN GEORGIA
OVERNIGHT, AND BY MORNING
EVERYTHING WAS CRUSTED WITH A
COAT OF ICE, JUST WHAT MANY
ACROSS THE SOUTH WERE DREADING.
>> WE'RE GETTING READY FOR THE
ICE, CAUSE THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
CONCERNED WITH, NOT THE SNOW.
>> Reporter: ICE ALREADY WAS
WEIGHING DOWN
TREE LIMBS AND POWER LINES,
KNOCKING OUT POWER TO HUNDREDS
OF THOUSANDS OF HOMES AND
BUSINESSES IN GEORGIA AND
ELSEWHERE.
AND, THAT NUMBER WAS EXPECTED TO
RISE STEADILY.
AS THE STORM KEPT MOVING,
FREEZING RAIN, SLEET AND SNOW
WERE FORECAST TO COVER A WIDE
SWATH OF THE SOUTH, FROM WEST OF
THE MISSISSIPPI, ACROSS GEORGIA
AND UP THE COAST THROUGH THE
CAROLINAS.
IN NORTH CAROLINA, BLACK ICE
ALREADY WAS WREAKING HAVOC ON
THE ROADS, WITH CARS IN THE
RALEIGH AREA SPINNING OUT.
>> DON'T PUT YOUR STUPID HAT ON.
>> Reporter: THE STATE'S
GOVERNOR, PAT MCCRORY, WARNED
RESIDENTS TO PREPARE NOW, NOT
LATER.
>> GET YOUR BATTERIES OUT,
FLASHLIGHTS, TRANSISTOR RADIO
OUT.
GET WARM CLOTHING OUT.
I HOPE WE'RE OVERPREPARED AND
UNDERWHELMED BY THIS STORM.
I HOPE THE FORECASTERS ARE WRONG
BUT THAT MAP DOESN'T SHOW
THEY'RE WRONG.
IT'S COMING.
>> Reporter: SNOW ACCUMULATIONS
WERE EXPECTED TO RANGE FROM AN
INCH ALL THE WAY UP TO A FOOT
AND A HALF IN SOME PLACES.
IN ALABAMA, THE LAST ROUND OF
STORMS FORCED OFFICIALS TO BUY
MORE SALT AND SPREADERS TO DEAL
WITH THE SNOW.
>> I THINK WE'RE AS WELL-
PREPARED AS A SOUTHERN TOWN
COULD BE FOR WEATHER LIKE THIS.S
WILL GET WORSE BEFORE IT GETS
BETTER.
>> Reporter: THE WARNINGS SENT
PEOPLE TO GROCERY STORES IN
DROVES TO STOCK UP ON THE
BASICS.
>> I'VE JUST GOT BREAD, CEREAL,
CRACKERS, SOUP, JUST THINGS YOU
CAN MAKE PRETTY EASILY.
>> Reporter: AND FOR AIR
TRAVELERS, THE STORM MEANT
WIDESPREAD CANCELLATIONS, MORE
THAN 3,000 TODAY ALONE, WITH THE
NUMBER EXPECTED TO BE EVEN
HIGHER TOMORROW.
>> Ifill: ANOTHER MAJOR STORM
STCK PRUARTS OF BRITAIN, FUELING
MORE OF THE EXTREME FLOODING
THAT BEGAN A MONTH AGO.
THE STORM PUMMELED SOUTHERN
ENGLAND WITH HEAVY RAIN AND
WINDS GUSTING OVER 100 MILES AN
HOUR.
WHERE HUNDREDS OF HOMES ARE
INUNDATED AND MORE ARE
THREATENED BY THE RIVER THAMES
OVERFLOWING ITS BANKS.
UNDER GROWING PRESSURE, PRIME
MINSTER DAVID CAMERON VOWED
TODAY TO SPARE NO EXPENSE ON
RECOVERY.
>> WHEN IT COMES TO THIS RELIEF
EFFORT, MONEY IS NO OBJECT,
WE'LL SPEND WHAT IS NECESSARY TO
HELP FAMILIES, TO HELP PEOPLE,
TO HELP COMMUNITIES GET THROUGH
THIS VERY DIFFICULT TIME.
I HAVE TO SAY, THINGS ARE LIKELY
TO GET WORSE BEFORE THEY GET
BETTER BECAUSE OF THE VERY HIGH
LEVELS OF RAINFALL WE'VE SEEN,
AND WE SEE VERY SERIOUS HIGH
WINDS AS WE SPEAK HERE IN THIS
HOUSE TODAY, BUT WHATEVER CAN BE
DONE TO HELP, WILL BE DONE.
>> Ifill: IT'S ALREADY ESTIMATED
THE FLOOD DAMAGE WILL TOP
$800 MILLION.
THE WEATHER'S BECOME AN ISSUE AT
THE WINTER OLYMPICS, TOO.
IT WAS 63 DEGREES IN SOCHI
TODAY, SO WARM AND SUNNY THAT
PEOPLE HIT THE BEACH,
SUNBATHING.
SOME EVEN WENT SWIMNG IMIN THE
BLACK SEA.
AS FOR THE RESULTS,A SPOILER
ALERT:
TUNE OUT FOR A MOMENT, IF YOU
DON'T WANT TO KNOW WHO WON JUST
YET.
IN SNOWBOARDING, AMERICAN
KAITLYN FARRINGTON CAPTURED THE
WOMEN'S HALFPIPE.
A IN NDA FIRST, SKIERS FROM
SWITZERLAND AND SLOVENIA TIED
FOR THE GOLD IN THE WOMEN'S
DOWNHILL.
WE'LL GET MORE ON THE GAMES
LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
>> Ifill: A STUDY 25 YEARS IN
THE MAKING HAS CAST NEW DOUBT ON
THE VALUE OF MAMMOGRAMS.
CANADIAN RESEARCHERS STUDIED
NEARLY 90,000 WOMEN.
THEY REPORTED TODAY,  THEIN
BRITISH JOURNAL B.M.J., THAT THE
SCREENING HAD NO EFFECT ON
BREAST CANCER DEATH RATES.
WE'LL TAKE A CLOSER LOOK RIGHT
AFTER THIS NEWS SUMMARY.
>> Ifill: THE SENATE GAVE FINAL
APPROVAL TODAY TO RAISING THE
NATIONAL DEBT CEILING, AFTER
REPUBLICAN LEADERS CAST CRUCIAL
VOTES TO OVERCOME A FILIBUSTER.
THE MEASURE PASSED THE HOUSE
YESTERDAY.
ALSO TODAY, THE SENATE FOLLOWED
THE HOUSE'S LEAD AND REPEALED
CUTS IN COST-OF-LIVING
ADJUSTMENTS FOR MILITARY
RETIREES.
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMASIGNEDR
RAISING THE MINIMUM WAGE ON
FEDERAL CONTRACTS.
AT  TODAY'S WHITE HOUSE
CEREMONY, HE OFFICIALLY HIKED
THE WAGE FROM $7.25 CENTS AN
HOUR TO $10.10.
A GROUP OF MINIMUM WAGE WORKERS
JOINED HIM FOR THE OCCASION.
>> LET'S NOT FORGOT NOT ONLY IS
IT GOOD FOR THE ECONOMY; IT'S
THE RIGHT THING TO DO.
THERE'S A SIMPLE MORAL PRINCIPAL
AT STAKE.
IF YOU TAKE RESPONSIBILITY AND
YOU WORK AS HARD AS THESE FOLKS
WORK, YOU WORK FULL-TIME, YOU
SHOULDN'T BE LIVING IN POVERTY.
NOT IN AMERICA.
WE BELIEVE THAT.
>> Ifill: THE INCREASE AFFECTS
SEVERAL HUNDRED THOUSAND FEDERAL
CONTRACT WORKERS, OUT OF MORE
THAN TWO MILLION.
ANOTHER ONE MILLION PEOPLE
ENROLLED FOR HEALTH CARE
COVERAGE LAST MONTH, UNDER THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
THAT BRINGS TOTAL ENROLLMENT TO
3.3 MILLION.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION'S
TARGET ORIGINALLY HOPED TO SIGN
UP SEVEN MILLION BY THE END OF
MARCH.
IN AFGHANISTAN, A FIREFIGHT
BROKE OUT TODAY BETWEEN N.A.T.O.
TROOPS AND AFGHAN SOLDIERS,
KILLING TWO FROM EACH SIDE.
OFFICIALS SAID IT HAPPENED IN A
PROVINCE EAST OF KABUL AFTER A
HEATED ARGUMENT TURNED VIOLENT.
IT WAS UNCLEAR WHAT TRIGGERED
THE ARGUMENT.
>> Ifill: NORTH AND SOUTH KOREA
HAVE HELD THEIR FIRST HIGH-LEVEL
TALKS IN SEVEN YEARS.
DELEGATES FROM THE COMMUNIST
STATE CROSSED THE DEMARCAONTI
LINE TO MEET WITH THEIR SOUTH
KOREAN COUNTERPARTS ON THE ARMED
BORDER.
THE MEETING CAME AT THE NORTH'S
REQUEST, BUT NO AGENDA WAS
DISCLOSED.
>> Ifill: THE OPPOSING SIDES IN
THE SYRIAN PEACE TALKS STALLED
AGAIN TODAY.
SO FAR, THE ASSAD GOVERNMENT AND
THE OPPOSITION "SYRIAN NATIONAL
COALITION" HAVE FAILED EVEN TO
AGREE ON THE AGENDA.
THE S.N.C. APPEALED TODAY TO
RUSSIA TO HELP FORCE A POLITICAL
TRANSITION, WHICH THE REGIME
REJECTED OUT OF HAND.
>> THIS IS WHAT WARE E DEMANDING
FROM RUSSIA, TO RESPECT THE
SYRIAN PEOPLE AND TO STAND WITH
THEM AND TO PREVENT ANY EFFORT
TO DISABLE A POLITICAL SOLUTION
AND TO GO INTO SIDE NEGOTIATIONS
THAT ARE NOT IN THE INTERESTS OF
THE SYRIAN PEOPLE.
>> THEY MISUSED THE AGENDA,
STARTED WITH RAISING THE ISSUE
OF THE TRANSITIONAL GOVERNMENT,
IN CONTRADICTION WITH THE MAIN
PRIORITIES AS IDENTIFIED BY THE
GENEVA I PAPER.
>> Ifill: MEANWHILE, THE
OPPOSITION SAID NEARLY 5,000
PEOPLE HAVE BEEN KILLED IN THE
THREE-WEEK PERIOD SINCE PEACE
TALKS BEGAN LAST MONTH.
>>
>> FROM CONTRACTORS.
A FEDERAL JURY FOUND THAT IN
RETURN, HE STEERED MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS IN CITY WORK.
AUTO GIANT "TOYOTA" IS RECALLING
1.9 MILLION OF ITS PRIUS HYBRIDS
MADE SINCE MARCH OF 2009.
THE COMPANY SAYS A SOFTWARE
GLITCH CAN CAUSE THE VEHICLES TO
STALL.
THE RECALL AFFECTS MORE THAN
700,000 CARS IN NORTH AMERICA.
WALL STREET MOSTLY IDLED TODAY
AFTER A FOUR-DAY RALLY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST NEARLY 31 POINTS TO CLOSE
BELOW 15,964.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 10 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,201.
PIONEERING T.V. COMEDIAN SID
CAESAR DIED TODAY AT HIS HOME IN
LOS ANGELES.
HE WAS BEST KNOWN FOR "YOUR SHOW
OF SHOWS" AND "CAESAR'S HOUR"
IN THE 1950'S.
HIS WORK WITH IMOGENE COCA IN
DOZENS OF SKETCHES VIRTUALLY
CREATED COMEDY ON
T.V.
A NUMBER OF WRITERS ON THOSE
SHOWS, INCLUDING CARL REINER,
MEL BROOKS AND WOODY ALLEN, WENT
ON TO EVEN GREATER FAME.
SID CAESAR WAS 91 YEARS OLD.
STILLO CO TME ON THE NEWSHOUR;
NEW QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
EFFECTIVENESS OF MAMMOGRAMS;
REPUBLICAN SENATOR MARCO RUBIO
ON WAYS TO TACKLE POVERTY; THE
3-D PRINTING REVOLUTION; THE
LATEST FROM THE SOCHI OLYMPICS;
PLUS, EUROPE'S STRUGGLE WITH
IMMIGRATION.
>> Wooduff: THERE'S NEW FUEL IN
THE LONG-RUNNING DEBATE
ABOUT THE VALUE OF MAMMOGRAMS
FOR SOME WOMEN, AND WHETHER TOO
MANY ARE BEING OVERDIAGNOSED.
THAN TWO DECADES, FOUND ANNUAL
SCREENINGS DID NOT REDUCE THE
RISK OF DEATH AMONG WOMEN
BETWEEN THE AGES OF 40 AND 59.
IT ALSO FOUND MORE THAN 20% OF
BREAST CANCERS DETECTED THROUGH
THOSE MAMMOGRAMS WOULD HAVE BEEN
FOUND OTHERWISE AND WERE NOT
LIFE-THREATENING.
THE STUDY COMES AMID QUESTIONS
ABOUT WHO SHOULD BE SCREENED AND
HOW FREQUENTLY.
A GOVERNMENT PANEL RECOMMENDED
MOST WOMEN UNDER 50 COULD SKIP
YEARLY MAMMOGRAMS.
BUT SEVERAL PROFESSIONAL
SOCIETIES RECOMMEND THEM FOR
WOMEN 40 AND ABOVE.
WE ASSESS THE LATEST FINDINGS
WITH DR. GILBERT WELCH OF THE
DARTMOUTH INSTITUTE STUDIES WHO
WRITES ABOUT THESE ISSUES.
HE'S THE AUTHOR OF
"OVERDIAGNOSED: MAKING PEOPLE
SICK IN THE PURSUIT OF HEALTH."
AND DOCTOR CAROL LEE, DIRECTOR
OF THE AMERICAN COLLEGE OF
RADIOLOGY, WHICH CRITICIZED THE
STUDY.
>> Woodruff: WELCOME TO YOU BOTH
TO THE NewsHour.
DR. WELCH, TO YOU FIRST.
IN BRIEF, WHAT DID THIS STUDY
FIND?
>> WELL, JUDY, I THINK THERE'S
TWO THINGS THAT ARE REALLY
IMPORTANT ABOUT THIS STUDY.
AND FIRST, IS THAT IT'S ABOUT
SCREENING MAMMOGRAM FEE NOT
DIAGNOSTIC MAMMOGRAPHY.
DIAGNOSTIC IS WHERE A WOMAN
FINDS A NEW BREAST LUMP, GOES TO
THE DOCTOR AND THE DOCTOR
ORDERER'S MA'AM GRAM TO FIND OUT
WHAT THE LUMP IS.
WE ALL AGREE, DIAGNOSTIC
MAMMOGRAPHY IS A USEFUL TOOL.
THE SECOND THING TO KNOW ABOUT
THE STUDY IS THAT IT COMPARED
MAMMOGRAPHY PLUS A VERY CAREFUL
PHYSICAL EXAM DONE BY NURSES TO
A GROUP THAT JUST GOT THE
CAREFUL PHYSICAL EXAM.
IN OTHER WORDS, IT'S TESTING THE
VALUE OF FINDING THINGS THAT
COULD NOT BE FELT, REALLY SMALL
ABNORMALITIES.
AND THAT'S ITS MAJOR FINDING;
THAT THERE'S NO POINT IN FIND
BEING THE REALLY SMALL
ABNORMALITIES THAT MA'AMING FEE
CAN FIND.
THAT'S VERY IMPORTANT THING FOR
EVERYONE TO RECOGNIZE.
>> Woodruff: BEYOND THAT, IT
FOUND THAT THERE WERE PROBLEMS
WITH THESE SCREENING MAMMOGRAMS?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
ALL SCREENING TESTS COME WITH
SOME POTENTIAL FOR BENEFIT.
BUT THEY ALSO COME WITH SOME
KNOWN HARMS.
AND THE MOST FAMILIAR TO PEOPLE
IS THE PROBLEM OF FALSE ALARMS,
WORRISOME FINDINGS THAT HAVE TO
GO THROUGH BIOPSY AND MULTIPLE
TESTS BEFORE THEY'RE PUT AT REST
OR MAYBE THEY'RENER PUT AT REST
AND YOU'RE JUST TOLD YOU DON'T
HAVE CANCER BUT YOU'RE STILL
NORMAL.
BUT THERE'S ALSO A NEW PROBLEM
THAT WE'RE RECOGNIZING WHICH IS
FINDING CANCERS THAT WILL
ULTIMATELY NEVER MATTER TO THE
PATIENTS AND WE CALL THAT
OVERDIAGNOSIS.
IT'S AN UNUSUAL IDEA WHERE YOU
HAVE CELLULAR ABNORMALITIES THAT
MEET THE PATHOLOGIC DEFINITION
OF CANCER AND YET THEY NEVER
GROW FORWARD.
THEY NEVER GROW.
THEY REGRESS.
THEY DISAPPEAR.
AND YET WE DON'T KNOW WHICH ONES
THEY ARE SO WE END UP TREATING
EVERYBODY.
AND 21 OF THE SIDE EFFECTS OF
SCREENING MA'AMOGRAPHY IS IT
LEADS MORE WOMEN TO BE TREATED
FOR CANCER SOME OF WHOM DIDN'T
NEED TREATMENT IN THE FIRST
PLACE N THIS STUDY A LONG-TERM
FIND UP IN A SCREENING IS THE
BEST WAY TO DE DEUCE HOW OFTEN
THAT HAPPENS.
AS YOU SAID IN YOUR OPEN, ABOUT
1 IN 5 INVASIVE BREAST CANCERS
TURN OUT TO BE OVERDIAGNOSED.
>> Woodruff: LET ME TURN TO YOU
DR. CAROL LEE.
THE AMERICAN COLLEGE OF
RADIOLOGY IS CRITICAL OF THE
STUDY.
WHAT ABOUT THE FIRST FINDING,
THAT SCREENING MAMMOGRAPHIES
OVERALL DON'T HAVE A BENEFIT?
>> WELL, THIS STUDY WAS NOT
ACTUAL A NEW STUDY.
THIS WAS JUST AN UPDATE OF A
STUDY THAT WAS FIRST REPORT OF
THE NEARLY 25 YEARS AGO THAT
WAS -- THAT SHOWED NO BENEFIT 25
YEARS AGO, AND SO IT'S NOT
SURPRISING THAT IT SHOWED NO
BENEFIT ON THE UPDATED ANALYSIS.
I THINK WHAT NEEDS TO BE
RECOGNIZED IS THAT THERE ARE A
NUMBER OF OTHER LARGE RANDOMIZED
PROSPECTIVE STUDIES OF SCREENING
MAMMOGRAPHY THAT DO INDEED SHOW
A BENEFIT IN TERMS OF LOSING
DEATHS FROM BREAST CANCER AMONG
WOMEN WHO GET
MAMMOGRAPHY.
SO THIS IS JUST ONE STUDY THAT
WAS REALLY AN OUT LIAR AND THERE
WERE SEVERAL CRITICISMS OF THE
STUDY IN TERMS OF HOW IT WAS
DESIGNED, HOW IT WAS CONDUCTED
25 YEARS AGO, AND THOSE SAME
PROBLEMS WERE NOT CORRECTED IN
THE RE-ANALYSIS, OBVIOUSLY, AND
SO I'M NOT SURPRISED THAT THESE
RESULTS WERE SIMILAR.
I THINK IT'S VERY IMPORTANT FOR
WOMEN TO UNDERSTAND THAT THERE
ARE A NUMBER OF OTHER STUDIES
THAT DO SHOW DECREASED DEATHS
AMONG WOMEN WHO GET SCREENED.
>> Woodruff: LET ME TURN BACK TO
DR. WELCH, AND IT'S A LOT TO ASK
YOU TO ADDRESS.
BUT NUMBER ONE, HER REFERENCE TO
THE FACT THAT THERE'S A PROBLEM
WITH THE METHODOLOGY; AND,
NUMBER TWO, THE FACT THAT THERE
ARE MANY OTHER STUDIES THAT
DON'T FIND THESE PROBLEMS.
>> YEAH, LET'S DEAL WITH THOSE
ONE AT A TIME.
AND THERE'S BEEN A LONG HISTORY
BY A VERY FEW PEOPLE TO TRY TO
DISCREDIT THIS STUDY, IN PART
BECAUSE THEY DON'T LIKE THE
RESULT.
AND THE PROBLEM HAS BEEN THAT
THEY ARE SUGGESTING THE
RANDOMIZATION WAS NOT GOOD, THAT
SOMEHOW SICKER PATIENTS GOT IN
THE MAMMOGRAPHY GROUP.
THE LONG-TERM FOLLOW UP ACTUALLY
PROVES THAT IS NOT RIGHT.
IN FACT, IT'S VERY HARD TO
SELECT 80,000 PEOPLE INTO TWO
GROUPS PURPOSEFULLY AND GET
EXACTLY THE SAME DEATH RATE IN
EACH YEAR IN EACH GROUP.
THAT'S ACTUALLY A PRETTY GOOD
FINDING AND THIS IS WAS A WELL
RANDOMIZED STUDY.
>> Woodruff: LET ME ASK DR. LEE
TO RESPOND TO THAT POINT.
>> THERE WERE EXCESS OF ADVANCED
BREAST CANCERS IN THE SCREENING
ARM OF THE TRIAL EARLY ON,
SUGGESTING THAT MORE WOMEN WITH
PRE-EXISTING ADVANCED BREAST
CANCERS GOT PLACED INTO THE
SCREENING ARM OF THE STUDY, AS
COMPARED TO THE CONTROL ARM.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU WANT TO
RESPOND TO THAT, DR. WELCH?
>> I THINK THE SIMPLEST THING TO
SAY IS 20 SUGGEST THAT EVERYONE
LOOK AT FIGURE 2 IN THE ARTICLE
WHICH IS PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE
THAT YOU HAD PRETTY GOOD
RANDOMIZATION.
25 YEARS LATER THE DEATH RATE OF
THE TWO GROUPS IS EXACTLY THE
SAME.
THAT'S A PRETTY GOOD ARGUMENT
FOR RANDOMIZATION.
>> AND DR. WELCH WHAT ABOUT THE
OTHER POINT SHE MADE THAT THERE
ARE MANY OTHER STUDIES THAT SHOW
THERE IS A BENEFIT.
>> THERE ARE NOT MANY OTHER
STUDIES.
DEPENDING ON HOW YOU COUNT THERE
ARE EIGHT OR NINE RANDOMIZED
TRIALS OF SCREENING MAMMOGRAPHY.
THERE'S NO STUDY LIKE THIS AND
THAT'S WHY I STARTED TON CLEAR
WHAT THE COMPARISON WAS.
THE COMPARISON WAS IN THE
INTERVENTION CROOME IT WAS A
SCREENING MAMMOGRAM PLUS THIS
CAREFUL PHYSICAL EXAM.
NO OTHER STUDY DID THAT.
THE CONTROL IS JUST THE PHYSICAL
EXAM.
SO WHAT IS BEING TESTED HERE IS
THE QUESTION OF WHAT IS THE
VALUE OF FINDING SMALL
ABNORMALITIES?
THAT'S THE IMPORTANT LESSON.
>> Woodruff: WELL LET'S --
>> THERE'S NO VALUE TO IT.
Woodruff: DR. LEE, DO YOU
WANT TO RESPOND THERE THAT AND
THEN I HAVE A FINAL QUESTION.
>> YEAH, I DO.
I DO.
IT'S BEEN SHOWN THAT THE DEATH
RATE FROM BREAST CANCER IN THIS
COUNTRY HAS DECLINED; WHEREAS,
IT HAD BEEN RISING STEADILY UP
UNTIL THE MID '80s,
DECLINED WITH THE INTRODUCTION
OF REGULAR SCREENING AM
MAMMOGRAPHY, AND SINCE THE MID
'80'S, THE DEATH RATE IN THIS
COUNTRY FROM BREAST CANCER HAS
BEEN REDUCED BY ABOUT 30%.
NOW, SOME PEOPLE WILL ARGUE THAT
THAT IS BECAUSE OF IMPROVEMENTS
IN TREATMENT.
BUT WE KNOW ALL OF US WHO TAKE
CARE OF WOMEN WITH BREAST CANCER
KNOW THAT IT IS MUCH MORE LIKELY
THAT TREATMENT WILL BE
SUCCESSFUL IN ACHIEVING A CURE
WHEN CANCERS ARE CAUGHT EARLY IN
THEIR MOST TREATABLE STAGE AS
OPPOSED TO WHEN THEY ARE
ADVANCED AND HAVE SPREAD, AND
MAMMOGRAPHY CAN ACHIEVE THAT.
>> LET ME JUST FINALLY ASK BOTH
OF YOU, WHAT SHOULD WOMEN
LISTENING TO THIS DEBATE TAKE
AWAY FROM THIS?
HOW SHOULD THEY THINK ABOUT
MAMMOGRAPHY GOING FORWARD?
DR. WELLCH?
>> I WOULD SAY THEY SHOULD TAKE
WARP THERE'S A LOT OF
PROFESSIONAL DISAGREEMENT AND WE
DON'T DISAGREE ABOUT THE VALUE
OF TREATING REALLY HIGH BLOOD
PRESSURE.
THE PROFESSIONAL DISAGREEMENT
TELLS YOU THIS IS A REALLY CLOSE
CALL.
AND I'M NOT SUGGESTING WOMEN
SHOULD NOT HAVE MAMMOGRAMS.
THEY SHOULD JUST HAVE THE VOICE.
IT'S A GENUINE CHOICE, A CLOSE
CALL.
IT HAS PROBABLY SOME BENEFITS
AND IT ALSO HAS SOME HARMS.
>> DR. LEE?
>> I THINK THAT THE EVIDENCE
SPEAKS FOR ITSELF.
THE DECLINE IN BREAST CANCER
DEATHS IN THIS COUNTRY OVER THE
LAST 0 YEARS HAS BEEN DUE IN
LARGE PART TO EARLIER DETECTION
BY SCREENING MAMMOGRAPHY, AND SO
CERTAINLY HAVING THE MAMMOGRAM
OR NOT HAVING THE MAMMOGRAM IS
AN INDIVIDUAL CHOICE.
NOBODY IS EVER FORCED TO HAVE A
MAMMOGRAM BUT I THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT TO RECOGNIZE IN ACTUAL
PRACTICE MAMMOGRAPHY OVER THE
YEARS HAS SAVED LIVES.
>> Woodruff: DR. CAROL LEE AND
GILBERT WELCH AND WOMEN WILL
TAKEN TO PAY CLOSE ATTENTION TO
ALL OF THIS.
THANK YOU.
>>
>> Ifill: IN RECENT MONTHS THE
STUBBORN PROSPERITY DIVIDE
BETWEEN THE RICH AND POOR IN
THIS COUNTRY HAS GAINED THE
ATTENTION OF BOTH DEMOCRATS AND
REPUBLICANS.
THE ISSUE IS THE FOCUS OF OUR
ONGOING SERIES, "CLOSING THE
GAP",
LAST WEEK JUDY SPOKE WITH
DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSMAN GEORGE
MILLER OF CALIFORNIA ABOUT HOW
HE BELIEVES THE PROBLEM SHOULD
BE TACKLED.
TODAY, I SPOKE EARLIER TODAY
WITH SENATOR MARCO RUBIO IN HIS
CAPITOL HILL OFFICE.
THE FLORIDA REPUBLICAN RECENTLY
UNVEILED HIS OWN ANTI-POVERTY
AGENDA.
Ifill: SENATOR RUBIO, THANK
YOU FOR JOINING US FOR THIS
DISCUSSION.
EVERYONE SEEMS TO BE TALKING
ABOUT INEQUALITY AND THEY'RE OP,
DIFFERENT DEFINITIONS FOR
ECONOMIC GROWTH.
ARE THESE ALL PART OF THE SAME
ECONOMIC ARGUMENT TO YOU?
>> THEY CAN BE.
HERE IS WHY.
WE LOOK AT WHAT HAS
DISTINGUISHED THIS FROM THE
WORLD.
IT'S THE IDEA THAT NO MATTER
WHERE YOU'RE BORN IN LIKE OR
WHAT THE CIRCUMSTANCES ARE WHEN
YOU'RE BORN, LIKE YOUR PARENTS
BEING POOR OR NOT CONNECTED TO
POWER, YOU HAVE A CHANCE IN THIS
COUNTRY TO GO AS FAR AS YOUR
TALENT AND YOUR WORK WILL TAKE
YOU.
WE PRIDE OURSELVES OPEN THAT AND
RIGHTFULLY SO.
IT MADE US EXCEPTIONAL.
WHAT TROUBLES US NOW, THE
RESEARCH NOW SHOWS THAT THERE
ARE OTHER COUNTRIES WHERE THE
CIRCUMSTANCES OF YOUR BIRTH
MATTER LESS THAN THEY DO HERE.
IT'S MATTERING MORE HERE THAN IN
OTHER PLACES AND WE DON'T WANT
TO ACCEPT THAT AND SHOULDN'T
ACCEPT THAT.
SO SECOND QUESTION IS:  WHY IS
THAT HAPPENING?
WHY IS THERE AN EMERGING
OPPORTUNITY GAP?
THE PRIMARY ANSWER IS BECAUSE OF
THE NEW ECONOMY THAT WE NOW LIVE
IN WHICH IS NOT ANUECONOMY, IT'L
ECONOMY IS A KNOWLEDGE BASED
ONE.
IN ORDER TO HAVE MIDDLE INCOME
MIDDLE PAYING JOBS THAT ALLOW
YOU TO GET AHEAD YOU HAVE TO
HAVE HIGHER TRAINING AND SKILL
LEVEL AND EDUCATION THAN EVER
BEFORE AND WE HAVE TOO MANY
PEOPLE THAT DON'T HAVE THE
SKILLS AND IN FACT THE PEOPLE
THAT MOST BENEFIT FROM ACQUIRING
THOSE SKILLS ARE THE ONES LEAST
LIKELY TO GET IT BECAUSE OF THE
COST AND THE WAY THE SYSTEM IS
STRUCTURED.
>> LAST WEEK OPEN "THE NEWS
HOUR," GEORGE MILLER, LIBERAL
CONGRESSMAN FROM CALIFORNIA SAID
THAT THE SECRET TO THIS, SAID
THE FOUNDATION IS RAISING THE
MINIMUM WAGE AND THE PRESIDENT
IS SIGNING HIS EXECUTIVE ORDER
WHICH WOULD AT LEAST RAISE THE
MINIMUM WAGE TO $10.10 FOR
FEDERAL COURT CONTRACTORS.
IS THAT THE FOUNDATION --
>> THAT'S NOT THE FOUNDATION.
I UNDERSTAND THEY MAY SUPPORT
THAT POLICY INITIATIVE BUT TO
ARGUE RAISING THE MINIMUM WAGE
IS GOING TO CREATE UPWARD
MOBILITY IS SILLY.
$10.10 IS NOT THE AMERICAN
DREAM.
THE BEST WAY TO LOOK AT SIT
THINK ABOUT A PERSON.
FOR EXAMPLE, SOMEONE WHO I KNOW
IS A RECEPTIONIST AT A MEDICAL
CLINIC.
SHE MAKES VERY LITTLE MONEY,
MAYBE MORE THAN MINIMUM WAGE BUT
NOT A LOT.
A SINGLE MOTHER WITH TWO
CHILDREN TO RAISE SO HER LIFE
GUESS LIKE THIS.
SHE WAKES UP, DROPS THEM OFF AT
SCHOOL, WORKS NINE HOURS, PICKS
THEM UP FROM AFTER CARE WHICH
COST LOT OF MONEY.
TAKES THEM HOPE, HELPS THEM WITH
HOMEWORK, PUTS THEM TO BED AND
IT'S 10 COMMON AT NIGHT.
THAT'S HER LIFE.
THE ONLY WAY TO INCREASE MONEY
SHE MAKES IS IF SHE CAN BEEN A
LAB TECHNICIAN OR PHARMACY
ASSISTANT, NOT JUST THE
RECEPTIONIST AT THE MEDICAL
CLINIC.
TO DO THAT, SHE NEEDS HIGHER
EDUCATION.
BUT HOW IS SHE GOING TO GET
HIGHER EDUCATION IF SHE HAS TO
WORK AND RAISE A FAMILY?
THE SYSTEM THAT WE HAVE IN PLACE
NOW DOES NOT ALLOW HER TO DO
THAT.
THAT'S THE ANSWER TO THE
PROBLEM.
>>
Ifill: HOW DOES SHE BENEFIT?
STAY WITH HER FOR A MOMENT, FOR
YOUR PROPOSAL TO TAKE FEDERAL
ANTIPOVERTY SPENDING AND PUT IT
IN A FLEX FUND AND GIVE TO IT
THE STATES TO ADMINISTER, HOW IS
THAT GOING TO HELP?
>> SHE IS EMPLOYED BUT A LOW
INCOME PERSON AND PROBABLY MAKES
TOO MUCH FOR ANY OF THE POVERTY
PROGRAMS.
WHAT SHE BO BENEFIT FROM IS THE
WAGE ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM WHICH
IS TAKING EARNED INCOME TAX
CREDIT AND CONVERTING IT TO AN
ENHANCEMENT WITH THE SAME IS
DELIVERED THROUGH A PAYCHECK.
THE OTHER IS THROUGH EDUCATION
ENTITY INITIATIVES THAT NOW SAY
YOU SHOULD BE ABLE TOO GET THE
EQUIVALENT OF A DEGREE OR
EDUCATIONAL CERTIFICATE BY
PACKAGING TOGETHER YOUR WORK
EXPERIENCE, SO CLEARLY SHE DOING
WORK NOW THAT SHOULD COUNT TO
SOMETHING, FREE ONLINE COURSE
WORK, PAID OR UNPAID
INTERNSHIPS, TESTING AND
PROFICIENCY, FOR EXAMPLE SHE
COULD PROBABLY GET SIX TO EIGHT
CREDIT HOURS IN SPANISH BECAUSE
SHE CAN SPEAK IT ALREADY,
DOESN'T NEED TO TAKE COURSES TO
DO THAT, AND THEN CREATE A
MECHANISM, ALTERNATIVE
ACCREDITING MECHANISM WHERE YOU
CAN PACKAGE ALL OF THOSE SORTS
OF THINGS TOGETHER INTO A DEGREE
PROGRAM TO GIVE HER THE
EQUIVALENT OF A COLLEGE DEGREE
IN A MORE AFFORDABLE WAY.
>> WHO PAYS FOR THE WAGE
ENHANCEMENTS IF NOT THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT.
>> IT'S IT IS.
THE.
WHAT I'M ARGUING IS NOT DO AWAY
WITH IT BUT TRANSFER IT TO A NEW
WAY TO DELIVER THE SAMISH.
>> BUT A WAGE ENHANCEMENT IS --
>>  IT'S DETERMINED BY HOW MUCH
YOU MAKE.
THE SAME MONEY FOR THE EARNED
INCOME TAX CREDIT.
IF YOU EXPAND IT SO IT COVERS
ONLY SINGLE WORKERS, SO IT
DOESN'T JUST COVER PARENTS WITH
CHIRP BUT ALSO SINGLE WORKERS
WOULD YOU HAVE TO PUT MORE MONEY
INTO IT AND THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
WORKING THROUGH AS WE PREPARE TO
FILE THE LEGISLATION.
BOTTOM LINE, IT IS ALREADY
THERE.
THAT MONEY IS ALREADY BEING
USED.
THE PROBLEM IS IT'S DELIVERED
ONCE A YEAR, EARLY IN THE YEAR
WHEN YOU GET YOUR TAX REFUND.
I'M ARGUING A BETTER WAY TO
DELIVER IT IS ON A-BY-MONTHLY
BASIS INTO YOUR PAYCHECK AS
OPPOSED TO ONE LUMP SUM AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE YEAR.
>> Ifill: YOU SAID IN YOUR
SPEECH ON THIS TOPIC A COUPLE OF
WEEKS AGO THE WAR ON POVERTY,
THE JOHNSON ERA WAR ON POVERTY
FAILED.
WHY IS THAT?
>> IT'S INCOMPLETE.
THE WAR PROGRAMS ALLEVIATE THE
PAIN AND SUFFERING OF POVERTY.
THAT'S IMPORTANT.
YOU DO HAVE TO DO THAT.
BUT THEY DON'T DO THE SECOND
STEP WHICH IS HELP PEOPLE EMERGE
FROM THE POVERTY.
TO HELP PEOPLE EMERGE YOU HAVE
TO UNDERSTAND WHAT ARE THE
STRUCTURAL CAUSES OF IT AND THE
STRUCTURAL CAUSES ARE PARTIALLY
CULTURAL.
WITH THE BREAK DOWN OF FAMILIES,
DESTABILIZED NEIGHBORHOOD,
BROKEN COMMUNITIES AND THERE ARE
SOME THINGS GOVERNMENT CAN DO
ABOUT THAT BUT A LOT OF THAT IS
ON US AS PEOPLE.
WE HAVE TO RECOGNIZE THAT'S A
REAL FACTOR.
>> Ifill: WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT
THE CULTURAL PIECE OF ISTH
MARRIAGE IN PARTICULAR AND THAT
THAT IS -- THAT THERE'S A
CORRELATION BETWEEN MARRIAGE AND
PEOPLE'S ABILITY TO SUCCEED OR
AT LEAST TO BE MOBILE,
ECONOMICALLY MOBILE, WHAT ROLE
DOES GOVERNMENT PLAY IN THAT?
>> FIRST OF ALL WE SHOULDN'T
PENALIZE MARRIAGE.
WE DOE HAVE SAFETY NET PROGRAMS
THAT DISQUALIFY YOU WHEN THE TWO
INCOMES COME TOGETHER AND YOU
ARE KICKED OUT OF THE PROGRAM.
WE SHOULDN'T BE DOING THAT.
AS FAR AS THE IMPACT MARRIAGE
HAS ON CHILDREN, TWO REASONS,
PRACTICALLY THERE ARE TWO
PAYCHECKS AND ALLOWING A FAMILY
TO HAVE MORE BUYING POWER AND
STABILITY AND THERE'S REALLY
VALUE IN RAISING CHILDREN IN A
STRONG AND STABLE HOME.
BY THE SAME TOKEN WE DON'T THE
PEOPLE THAT DON'T HAVE THAT WE
GIVE UP OF THE.
>> ON THE CONTRARY, I TALKED
ABOUT THIS IN THE LEGISLATURE,
IF YOU ARE A CHILD, OFTENTIMES
BEING RAISED BY YOUR GRANDMOTHER
BECAUSE YOUR MOM IS WORKING
FULL-TIME, YOUR DAD HAS NEVER
BEEN AROUND, YOU LIVE IN A
DANGEROUS NEIGHBORHOOD IN
SUBSTANDARD HOUSING AND THE
SCHOOL THAT YOU'RE ZONED INTO IS
NOT DOING A GOOD JOB, YOU HAVE
FIVE STRIKES AGAINST YOU.
HOW ARE YOU GOING TO MAKE IT
UNLESS SOMETHING DRAMATIC
HAPPENS TO CHANGE THAT
PERSPECTIVE?
>> Ifill: AS YOU KNOW WE'RE
SUDDENLY ALL TALKING ABOUT THIS.
IN THE PAST DEMOCRATS WERE THE
ONES THAT TALKED ABOUT POVERTY
AND REPUBLICANS TALKED ABOUT, I
DON'T KNOW, OPPORTUNITY.
NOW IT SEEMS AS IF THE TWO
ARGUMENTS ARE COMING TOGETHER.
AM I RIGHT ABOUT THAT?
YOU, MIKE LEE, PAUL RYAN, ALL
GIVING SPEECHES ABOUT -- AND THE
PRESIDENT.
>> PERHAPS.
AND THERE'S A DIFFERENCE.
I HOPE THIS ISSUE DOESN'T HAVE
TO BE PARTISAN OR HIGHLY
POLITICAL.
I THINK WE CAN AGREE WE WANT
THIS TO BE A COUNTRY OF QUALITY
AND OPPORTUNITY AND UPWARD
MOBILITY.
I BELIEVE A VIBRANT FREE
ENTERPRISE ECONOMY CREATES THOSE
SORTS OF OPPORTUNITIES BUT I
BELIEVE THAT THERE ARE BARRIERS,
EDUCATIONAL BARRIERS, CULTURAL
BARRIERS, SOCIETAL BARRIERS THAT
ARE KEEPING PEOPLE FROM
ACCESSING THE PROMISE OF A
VIBRANT FREE INCOME ECONOMY.
>> YOU SAY YOU DON'T WANT TO
SPEAK PARTISAN BUT ARE YOU
GETTING A LOT OF SUPPORT IN YOUR
PARTY FOR THE ARGUMENT?
>> I AM.
SO SOME OF THE IDEAS ARE COMING
FROM THINK TANK LIKE PERSONALITY
ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE.
>> WHICH FOUNDATION IS --
>> WELL THEY HAVE BEEN HELPFUL
AS WELL IN THE IDEAS THAT WE
HAVE WORKED ON AND I THINK THAT
THIS IS A DRIVE TOWARDS THAT
REFORM NOTION THAT, LOOK, WE DO
HAVE A GROWING OPPORTUNITY GAP
IN AMERICA.
IT'S HARD TO IGNORE THAT.
AND THE QUESTION; WHAT SOLVES
IT?
AND THERE MAY BE TWO SCHOOLS OF
THOUGHT, RIGHT?
WE HEAR FROM A THE LEFT THAT THE
SCHOOL OF THOUGHT IS, LET'S JUST
POUR MORE MONEY INTO 20th
CENTURY PROGRAMS.
MY ARGUMENT IS, THAT IS NOT
GOING TO WORK.
WE NEED 21st CENTURY PROGRAMS.
WE'RE NOT IN THE INDUSTRIAL
REVOLUTION ANYMORE WHERE YOU CAN
LEAVE HIGH SCHOOL, GO WORK AT
THE TOWN FACTORY FOR 50 YEARS
AND RETIRE WITH A PENSION.
THE 21st CENTURY LOOKS
DIFFERENT.
IT'S DISRUPTIVE AND HAS CREATED
A LOT OF INSECURITY.
WE HAVE TO ADJUST TO THAT.
THE 212st CENTURY HAS PROMISE.
THE HIGHER PAYING JOBS OF THE
NEW CENTURY ARE FANTASTIC.
THE PROBLEM IS IS THAT YOU HAVE
TO HAVE A LEVEL OF HIGHER
EDUCATION, MAYBE NOT 5 FOUR YEAR
DEGREE BUT A LEVELFUL HIGHER
EDUCATION TO GET THOSE JOBS AND
THE PEOPLE THAT NEED THE JOBS
ARE THE LEAST LIKELY TO HAVE
THAT EDUCATION.
>> Ifill: SENATOR MARCO RUBIO,
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>>
>> Ifill: WE HAVE MORE WITH
SENATOR RUBIO ON WHAT HE CALLS
THE "ALL OR NOTHING" POLITICAL
CHALLENGE FACING ANOTHER
CRITICAL ISSUE HE HAS
CHAMPIONED, IMMIGRATION REFORM.
YOU CAN WATCH THAT VIDEO ONLINE.
>> Wooduff: THERE IS YET ANOTHER
TECHNOLOGICAL TRANSFORMATION
UNDERFOOT.
AND THIS ONE TURNS IDEAS INTO
PHYSICAL REALITIES, RIGHT BEFORE
YOUR EYES.
SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT MILES
O'BRIEN HAS THE STORY.
>> Reporter: AT HOD LIPSONS LAB,
THEY ARE ON THE LEADINEDGEG  OF
A METHOD OF PRINTING THAT
PRESSES THE PROCESS INTO A WHOLE
NEW DIMENSION.
THE THIRD DIMENSION.
>> THIS IS A REAL REVOLUTION.
IT CAN REALLY CHANGE THINGS
FOREVER.
HOW WE EVEN THINK ABOUT DESIGN.
LIPSON IS AN ENGINEERING
PROFESSOR AT CORNELL UNIVERSITY,
HIS LAB IS A TOY-BOX AND A
PLAYGROUND FOR NEW GENERATION OF
DESIGNERS.
UNDERGRAD JENA WITZLEBEN IS
DESIGNING AND PRINTING SOME
BALLET SHOES.
THIS IS A SCAN OF THE SHOE
ITSELF SUBTRACTED A SCAN OF MY
FOOT.
>> Reporter: GRAD STUDENT ROBERT
MACCURDY IS WORKING ON WHAT THEY
CALL BIT BLOCKS, SMALL CIRCUIT
BOARDS.
>> THIS GIVES US A QUICK WAY OF
INCORPORATING ELECTRICAL
FUNCTIONALITY INTO 3-D PRINTING
>> Reporter: AND APOOVA KIRAN IS
PRIMING THE PUMP FOR PROJECTS
THAT PRINT IN MORE THAN ONE
MATERIAL.
>> 3-D PRINTING WAS INVENTED 30
>> Reporter: 3-D PRINTING WAS
INVENTED 30 YEARS AGO BUT IS NOW
COMING OF AGE.
THE DEVICES CAN PRINT IN ALL
KINDS OF METALS, PRODUCE FOOD
AND EVEN HUMAN TISSUE.
AND THE TECHNOLOGY IS COMING
HOME, JUST AS COMPUTERS DID IN
THE EARLY 1980'S.
>> WERE A LITTLE BIT AFTER THE
TRANSITION FROM THE MAIN FRAME
TO THE DESKTOP.
WE ARE AT THE EARLY DAYS OF THE
HOME COMPUTERS, WE AREN'T QUITE
AT THE POINT WHERE WE HAVE AN
I.B.M. P.C.
SAN FRANCISCO ARTIST MICAH SCOTT
IS ON THE LEADING EDGE OF THIS
MIGRATION INTO WIDESPREAD USAGE.
>> THIS 3D PRINTER WAS
ORIGINALLY A MAKER-BOT THING-O-
MATIC, WHICH WAS A KIT THAT I
THINK WAS RELEASED IN LIKE LATE
2010 OR EARLY 2011.
>> Reporter: A MACHINE LIKE
THIS, WHICH COSTS ABOUT $1,500,
EXTRUDES MOLTEN PLASTIC IN THIN
LAYERS, LIKE A PRECISION HOT
GLUE GUN.
AND LIKE 2-D INKJET PRINTERS,
THE REAL COST IS IN THE PRICEY
REFILLS.
>> THIS IS SORT OF AN
EXPERIMENTAL SHAPE THAT I AM
WORKING ON FOR AN LED ART
PROJECT.
>> Reporter: I WATCHED AS MICAH
USED SOME SOFTWARE TO CREATE A
3-D DESIGN, AND THEN HIT PRINT,
WE WAITED, AND THEN WAITED.
AND THEN WAITED SOME MORE.
PRINTING THIS PIECE TOOK 18
HOURS FROM START TO FINISH.
BUT MICAH BELIEVES IT IS WELL
WORTH THE WAIT.
WITH 3-D PRINTERS, I'VE
DEFINITELY BEEN IN THAT POSITION
WHERE I'M KIND OF ASTOUNDED TO
BE HOLDING THIS PHYSICAL OBJECT
THAT I JUST DESIGNED HOURS AGO.
MICAH USED TO BE A SILICON
VALLEY HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE
DESIGNER.
THAT EXPERIEE CONCMES IN HANDY.
FREQUENTLY.
WITHOUT HER LEFT-BRAIN SKILLS,
HER QUIRKY PRINTER WOULD NOT BE
ABLE TO DELIVER HER RIGHT-BRAIN
CREATIONS.
>> I DO SOMETIMES WISH SO I
COULD JUST PUSH A BUTTON AND
HAVE MY PRINT WORK WITHOUT SORT
OF AGONIZING OVER THIS THING FOR
A COUPLE OF HOURS.
>> THESE ARE FROM A THIRD PARTY
WEBSITE.
PEOPLE TAKE PICTURES OF THEIR
PETS.
>> Reporter: THE PROBLEMS, AND
THE PROMISE, OF THIS EMERGING
TECHNOLOGY ARE KEY INGREDIENTS
DRIVING THE RAPID GROWTH OF A
COMPANY CALLED SHAPEWAYS.
>> WE HAVE ROUGHLY 15 PRINTERS
HERE RIGHT NOW AND WERE
EXPANDING THAT NUMBER ALL THE
TIME.
>> Reporter: SHAPEWAYS CEO PETER
WEIJMARSHAUSEN CO-FOUNDED THE
COMPANY IN 2009.
BASED IN NEW YORK, SHAPEWAYS
TURNS CUSTOMER DESIGNS, INTO
INTRICATE, QUIRKY REALITY, USING
BIG, PRECISE 3-D PRINTERS LIKE
THIS ONE.
>> THE LIGHTS HEATS UP THE
POWDER SO IT ALMOST MELTS.
>> Reporter: WHICH USES A LASER
TO FUSE POWDERED PLASTIC INTO
THE DESIRED SHAPE, LAYER BY
LAYER.
>> THESE ONES ARE ABOUT A HALF
MILLION DOLLARS AND THEN THE BIG
ONE IS ABOUT A MILLION DOLLARS.
>> Reporter: THAT ONE OVER THERE
YOU MEAN?
>> Reporter: YEAH.
>> Reporter: ARMCHAIR DESIGNERS
UPLOAD ABOUT A HUNDRED THOUSAND
3-D PRINT PROJECTS TO SHAPEWAYS
EACH MONTH.
ENGINEERS HERE INSURE THEY CAN
BE FEASIBLY PRINTED, ARRANGE
VARIOUS PROJECTS CHEEK TO JOWL
TO MAXIMIZE EFFICIENCY, AND THEN
PRINT, CLEAN, POLISH AND SHIP
THE FINISHED PRODUCTS, WHICH
COST ANYWHERE FROM A FEW TO A
FEW THOUSAND DOLLARS, DEPENDING
ON HOW MUCH MATERIAL IS USED.
>> AT SHAPEWAYS, WE GIVE PEOPLE
THE ACCESS TO MAKE WHATEVER THEY
WANT, AND WH,
THEY DO MAKE.
AND WHAT IT IS SOMETIMES PUZZLES
US, SOMETIMES AMAZES US.
IT'S REALLY COOL TO SEE.
>> Reporter: BUT SHAPEWAYS IS
NOT JUST FOR PEOPLE WHO WANT A
TRICKED OUT CUSTOM I-PHONE
COVER.
CUSTOMERS WITH CLEVER IDEAS CAN
BECOME SELLERS, OFFERING THEIR
CURIOS FOR SALE ON THE SHAPEWAYS
WEBSITE.
THERE ARE NOW 12,000 SHOPKEEPERS
IN THIS VIRTUAL BAZAAR OF THE
BIZARRE THE BETTER ONES ARE
PRINTING MONEY.
>> THE BARRIERS TO BRING A
PRODUCT TO MARKET ARE GOING TO
BE ALMOST ZERO AS A RESULT,
ANYONE WITH A GREAT IDEA CAN
LAUNCH A PRODUCT.
>> Reporter: EVEN IF THEY ARE IN
8TH GRADE.
THESE STUDENTS AT THE BUFORD
MIDDLE SCHOOL IN
CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA ARE
BUILDING SPEAKERS USING 3D
PRINTERS.
FOR LAMIA WEST, IT IS AN ENTRY
TO A WHOLE NEW WORLD.
>> THIS IS LIKE WHAT I WANT TO
DO WITH MY FUTURE, IF I WANT TO
BE ENGINEER OR DO I WANT TO GO
INTO SOMETHING ELSE.
>> Reporter: THAT IS MUSIC TO
HER TEACHERS EARS.
>> WERE GONNA TAKE THIS OUT.
AND RIGHT NOW IT IS ON THREE.
>> Reporter: STEPHANIE GRADY IS
AN ENGINEER TURNED EDUCATOR, AND
AN ALUMNA OF THIS SCHOOL.
>> IF WE DON'T TEACH OUR
STUDENTS NOW AND ENCOURAGE THEM
TO TAKE THESE CLASSES IN
COLLEGE, THERE'S GOING TO BE A
LOT OF MISSED OPPORTUNITIES
>> Reporter: BUT EDUCATORS WARN
THESE MACHINES CANNOT PRINT
SILVER BULLETS TO FIRE UP
INTEREST IN TECHNOLOGY AND
ENGINEERING IN CLASSROOMS.
FOR ONE THING, TEACHERS NEED A
LOT OF TRAINING AND SUPPORT TO
MAKE THE MAGIC HAPPEN.
AT BUFORD, THEY HAVE THE PERFECT
HELP DESK NEARBY: FACULTY AT THE
CURRY SCHOOL OF EDUCATION AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA.
GLEN BULL IS A PROFESSOR THERE.
>> KEEP IN MIND THAT NO TEACHER
TODAY HAS REALLY BEEN PREPARED
OR TRAINED TO USE THESE
TECHNOLOGIES IN THE CURRICULUM.
PUTTING THIS EQUIPMENT IN
SCHOOLS AND HAVING IT CHANGE HOW
KIDS LEARN REQUIRES A WHOLE
INFRASTRUCTURE TO SUPPORT IT.
THAT CANT BE DONE OVERNIGHT.
>> Reporter: AND WHAT ABOUT REAL
BULLETS?
3-D PRINTERS MAKE IT POSSIBLE
FOR PEOPLE TO BUILD UNREGISTERED
AND UETECNDTABLE WEAPONS AT
HOME.
A.T.F. AGENTS TESTED THE IDEA.
USING A DESIGN FOUND ON THE
INTERNET, THEY PRINTED A GUN
USING TWO TYPES OF MATERIALS.
ONE WORKED.
THE OTHER  EXPLODED.
THIS IS WHAT WORRIES HOD LIPSON.
>> I DON'T THINK THEY'RE
CONCERNED IN TERMS SORT OF
CRIMINAL ACTIVITY OR TERRORIST
ACTIVITY WHICH WOULD SEEM TO BE
DRIVING A LOT OF DISCUSSION.
THE PLASTIC GUNS ARE OF A
CONCERN TO ME BECAUSE THEY BRING
ABOUT THE ISSUE OF SAFETY AND
QUALITY ASSURANCE.
>> Reporter: LIPSON IS MORE
WORRIED ABOUT PUSHING THE
TECHNOLOGY OVER THE NEXT BIG
HURDLE: REFINING MACHINES THAT
CAN PRINT MULTIPLE MATERIALS AT
ONCE.
BELIEVE IT OR NOT, THIS CRUDE
SPEAKER IS A BIG STEP.
THE ENTIRE THING, MAGNET,
CONDUCTOR, MEMBRANE AND ALL, WAS
COMPLETELY 3-D PRINTED, NO
PREFABRICATED PARTS, NO ASSEMBLY
REQUIRED.
>> I THINK THIS IS JUST THE
BEGINNING.
ONCE WE CAN MASTER THAT, WE CAN
START MAKING MORE SOPHISTICATED
THINGS, AND I REALLY THINK THAT
WITHIN A FEW YEARS OF BEING ABLE
TO PRINT COMPA LETE INTEGRATED
ELECTRONIC SYSTEM OR EVEN A
ROBOT, WELL BE WITHIN REACH.
>> Reporter: BUT LIPSON BELIEVES
THAT ROBOT WILL BE DESIGNED BY A
ROBOT.
GET A LOAD OF THIS IDEA,
DESIGNED BY SOFTWARE LIPSON
CALLS IT ARTIFICIAL CREATIVITY.
WITH MACHINES DOING THE
DESIGNING, I GUESS WE ALL NEED
TO STAY ON OUR TOES.
I HAD TO LEAVE BEFORE JENNAS
BALLET SHOE INSERTS CAME OFF THE
PRINTER, BUT SHE SENT THESE
PICTURES, AND SHE CLEARLY IS ON
HER TOES FOR WHATEVER IS NEXT IN
THIS REVOLUTION.
>> Wooduff: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
NEW REFERENDUM IN SWITZERLAND TO
LIMIT IMMIGRATION IS THREATENING
THE COUNTRY'S ECONOMIC TIES WITH
EUROPE.
AND IT'S RAISING QUESTIONS ABOUT
THE RISE OF ANTI-IMMIGRANT
GROUPS ACROSS THE CONTINENT.
>> Reporter: BY A RAZOR-THIN
MARGIN, JUST OVER 50%, SWISS
VOTERS ON SUNDAY SUPPORTED
IMPOSING QUOTAS ON HOW MANY
FOREIGNERS ARE ALLOWED TO ENTER
THE COUNTRY.
>> ( translated ): I AM FOR IT
BECAUSE I THINK WE NEED TO START
TO CONTROL THE ARRIVAL OF
FOREIGNERS.
OTHER COUNTRIES DO IT, THE
UNITED STATES, AUSTRALIA, YOU
CAN'T JUST HAVE A WORK PERMIT
LIKE THAT.
>> EVERYTHING IS ABOUT THE
ECONOMY BECAUSE PEOPLE ARE
AFRAID THAT IMMIGRANTS WILL COME
HERE EN MASSE AND TAKE THEIR
JOBS WHICH, IN MY OPINION, IS
WRONG.
>> Reporter: THE STOP MASS
IMMIGRATION INITIATIVE WAS
LAUNCHED BY THE NATIONALIST
SWISS PEOPLE'S PARTY, OR S.V.P,
WHICH HOLDS A QUARTER OF THE
SEATS IN PARLIAMENT.
THE GROUP FOCUSED HEAVILY ON
FEARS OF OVER-POPULATION AND A
RISING NUMBER OF MUSLIM
IMMIGRANTS.
IT ALSO COMPLICATES RELATIONS
WITH THE EUROPEAN UNION.
SWITZERLAND IS NOT A MEMBER, BUT
DOES HAVE TRADE PACTS WITH THE
28-NATION BLOC.
IN A RADIO INTERVIEW MONDAY,
FRENCH FOREIGN MINISTER LAURENT
FABIUS WARNED THE VOTE
JEOPARDIZES THOSE ARRANGEMENTS.
>> ( translated ): IN CONCRETE
TERMS, SINCE 1999 THERE ARE
AGREEMENTS WITH SWITZERLAND,
WITH REGARDS TO FREE MOVEMENT OF
WORKERS MAINLY, BUT ALSO TO MANY
SUCH THAT IF ONE ELEMENT COMES
UNDER QUESTION, IN THIS CASE
FREE MOVEMENT OF WORKERS,
EVERYTHING COLLAPSES.
>> Reporter: IN FACT, THE
INFLUENCE OF ANTI-IMMIGRANT
FACTIONS HAS BEEN RISING ACROSS
EUROPE, FROM GREECE, TO ITALY,
SPAIN, BRITAIN AND THE
NETHERLANDS.
IRISH FOREIGN MINISTER EAMON
GILMORE.
>> I THINK THIS IS A VERY
DISTURBING VOTE.
I THINK WE HAVE SEEN THROUGHOUT
EUROPE A GROWTH IN WHAT I CAN
ONLY CALL AN EXTREME-RIGHT
AGENDA, WHICH IS QUITE
XENOPHOBIC.
>> Reporter: THE SWISS VOTE
COULD ALSO SIGNAL GREATER
SUPPORT FOR ANTI-IMMIGRANT
CANDIDATES RUNNING IN EUROPEAN
PARLIAMENT ELECTIONS, THIS MAY.
SO WHAT IS THE SIGNIFICANCE OF
THE RECENT VOTE IN SWITZERLAND?
FOR THAT WE TURN TO HEATHER
CONLEY, DIRECTOR OF THE EUROPE
PROGRAM AT THE CENTER FOR
STRATEGIC AND INTERNATIONAL
STUDIES.
AND CHARLES KUPCHAN, HE'S A
PROFESSOR OF INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS AT GEORGETOWN
UNIVERSITY AND A SENIOR FELLOW
AT THE COUNCIL ON FOREIGN
RELATIONS.
HE ALSO SERVED ON THE NATIONAL
SECURITY COUNCIL STAFF DURING
THE CLINTON ADMINISTRATION.
>> WELCOME BACK TO THE
NewsHour TO YOU BOTH.
HEATHER CONLEY TO YOU FIRST,
TELL US IN BRIEF, WHAT WERE
SWISS VOTERS ASKED TO VOTE ON?
WHAT WAS THIS REFERENDUM?
>> IN A NUTSHELL THEY WERE ASKED
TO CURB OR SEEK QUOTAS FOR
IMMIGRATION.
SWITZERLAND, POPULATION OF
8 MILLION HAS A FOREIGN BORN
POPULATION THAT REPRESENTS 23%
OF THE SWISS POPULATION.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT THE SWISS
PEOPLE'S PARTY, A FAR-RIGHT
POLITICAL PARTY IN SWITZERLAND,
HAS BEEN PUSHING AND SWITZERLAND
HAS A FORM OF DIRECT
REPRESENTATION, DIRECT DEMOCRACY
AND THEY PUT THE ISSUE TO A
REFERENDUM, DO YOU WANT TO SEE
LIMITS TO THE IMMIGRATION LEVELS
THAT ENTER SWITZERLAND.
>> Woodruff: CHARLES KUPCHAN
WHAT'S YOUR BESTING WHY THE
PUBLIC VOTED AS IT DID?
IT WAS A NARROW WIN JUST OVER
50%.
>> I THINK THERE ARE TWO BASIC
THINGS GOING ON.
ONE IS ANTI-IMMIGRATION
SENTIMENT THAT WE SEE ALL OVER
EUROPE AND WE SEE IN THE UNITED
STATES, PEOPLE LIVING NEXT DOOR
WHO WERE NOT BORN HERE WHO MAY
BE VYING FOR JOBS AND MAY NOT
LOOK LIKE YOU, AND THE SECOND IS
WHAT I WOULD CALL SOMETHING AKIN
TO THE LIBERTARIAN SENTIMENT IN
THE UNITED STATES.
SOVEREIGNTY.
TAKING BACK THE RIGHTS OF THE
NATION FROM GLOBALIZATION, FROM
EUROPEAN INTEGRATION, OUR
BORDERS ARE BEING PENETRATED, WE
HAVE LOST A CERTAIN AMOUNT OF
CONTROL OVER OUR DESTINY.
THOSE TWO THINGS ARE RUNNING
TOGETHER, THE ANTI-IMMIGRANT AND
THE SOVEREIGNTY AND THAT IS WHY
THIS IS SOMEWHAT THREATENING 20
EUROPE AND IT HAS AN ANTI-EU
TINT TO IT.
>> Woodruff: WHY OVER 50% VOTED
AS THEY DID?
>> IT WAS A SQUEAKER.
THE GOVERNMENT, THE BUSINESS
COMMUNITY, THE IMPORTANT SWISS
IF THERE COMMUNITY WERE ALL
SAYING DON'T VOTE THIS WAY AND
YET THE MEME SAID, YOU KNOW, WE
ARE VERY ANXIOUS ISSUES AND
FRIGHTENED BY THE IMMIGRATION
AND WE'RE CONCERNED ABOUT IT
ERODING INTO OUR JOBS, OUR
ECONOMY.
WE'RE UNCOMFORTABLE N2009, THERE
WAS A REFERENDUM THAT BAND 9
CONSTRUCTION OF MINNERETTES AND
THIS IS BEEN A STEADY ISSUE IN
SWITZERLAND BUT IT REALLY CAME
TO A HEAD WITH THIS REFERENDUM,
AND, TO CHARLES' POINT, THIS IS
A CRITICAL PILLAR OF EUROPEAN
INTEGRATION.
THERE ARE FOUR PILLARS, THE FREE
MOVEMENT OF PEOPLE, OF CAPITAL,
OF GOODS AND SERVICES.
SWITZERLAND IS NOT A MEMBER OF
THE EUROPEAN UNION BUT THEY ARE
A MEMBER OF THE EUROPEAN FREE
TRADE AREA.
THIS IS GOING TO BE A MAJOR
OBSTACLE WITH THE REFERENDUM AND
WE WILL SEE HOW THE EUROPEAN
UNION OFFICIALS REACT.
>> Woodruff: WHY AN OBSTACLE?
>> BECAUSE THE SWISS HAVE
NEGOTIATED THESE AGREEMENTS WITH
THE EU, EVEN THOUGH THEY'RE NOT
A MEMBER AND THE EU WAS GOING TO
SAY, YOU DON'T WANT FREE
MOVEMENT OF THE GOODS WE'RE NOT
GOING TO LET YOU HAVE GOODS, NOT
GOING TO LET YOU HAVE ACCESS TO
OUR MARKET AND THEN IT SORT OF
SPILLS OVER AND THE BRITISH ARE
GOING TO SAY IF THE SWISS ARE
GOING TO BACK OUT ON THIS, THEN
WE WANT TO RENEGOTIATE AND THEN
YOU GET A FRAGMENTATION OF THE
EUROPEAN UNION, SOLIDARITY AND
OPEN BOREDDERS AND WHO KNOWS
WHERE IT GOES.
>> Woodruff: CHARLES KUPCHAN CAN
YOU POINT OUT HOW HOW MUCH OF TS
IS ECONOMIC AND WHAT CREW
DESCRIBED A MOMENT AGO AND HOW
MUCH OF IT IS RELATED TO THEETH
IDENTITY OF IMMIGRANTS THE
RELIGIOUS IDENTITY OF
IMMIGRANTS?
>> IT'S NOT FUNDAMENTALLY
ECONOMIC AND THAT'S BECAUSE
SWITZERLAND HAS PRETTY GOOD
NUMBERS, PLOIMENTS IS BELOW 5%,
ECONOMY IS DOING DWELL AND MOST
OF THE PEOPLE THAT ARE WORKING
IN SWITZERLAND WHO ARE NON-SWISS
ARE IN BANKS, IN
PHARMACEUTICALS, THEY ARE NOT
OUT THERE COMPETING FOR SERVICE
JOBS, AND FURTHERMORE, THE
PEOPLE WHO VOTED AGAINST
IMMIGRATION COME FROM CAMPS WITH
FEW IMMIGRANTS, FROM SMALL TOWN
AND RURAL AREAS.
>> Woodruff: RURAL DIVISION
AREAS OF THE COUNTRY.
>> AND THE URBAN AREAS VOTED
AGAINST -- SO WHO IT'S ABOUT WHO
ARE THESE PEOPLE MORE THAN AN
ECONOMIC ISSUE.
>> Woodruff: IS THIS SOMETHING,
HEATHER CONLEY, THAT YOU SEE
GROWING ACROSS EUROPE OR NOT?
WHERE DO YOU SEE THIS HEADED?
>> IT'S GROWING AND THE TIMING
OF THIS IS INTERESTING.
IT'S COMES THREE MONTHS BEFORE
VERY IMPORTANT EUROPEAN
PARLIAMENT ELECTIONS AT THE END
OF MAY.
THIS IS THE ONLY EUROPEAN BODY
THAT IS DEMOCRATICALLY ELECTED
PAN EUROPEAN DEMOCRATICALLY
ELECTED.
WE KNOW GROUPS, FAR RIGHT
POLITICAL GROUPS LIKE FRONT
NATIONAL IN FRANCE, UNITED
KINGDOM INDEPENDENCE PARTY IN
THE UK, POLICY TELL US THEY WILL
DO EXTREMELY WELL FOR THE
ELECTIONS SO WHAT EUROPEANS MAY
BE TELLING THE EUROPEAN UNION IS
THAT WE DON'T WANT MORE EUROPE.
WE DON'T WANT THE FREE MOVEMENT
OF PEOPLES; NOT ONLY IMMIGRANTS
THAT MAY BE COMING FROM NORTH
AFRICA FROM THE MIDDLE EAST, BUT
PEOPLES THAT ARE COMING FROM
OTHER EU MEMBER STATES LIKE
BULGARIA AND OTHERS.
THIS IS BUILDING AN ENORMOUS
CASE OF ANTI-EUROPEAN,
ANTI-IMMIGRANT AND IT CAN TURN
VIOLENT LIKE IT HAS IN GREECE.
>> WHAT DO YOU SEE THE
CONSEQUENCES OF THIS BEING?
YOU MENTIONED THE ECONOMIC TRADE
DISCUSSION GOING ON.
WHAT ABOUT FOR PEOPLE IN EUROPE?
>> YOU KNOW THE GOOD NEWS IS
THAT IN MOST COUNTRIES IN
EUROPE, CENTER LEFT AND CENTER
RIGHT ARE STILL PRO IMMIGRATION
AND MR. EUROPE, PRO INTEGRATION.
BUT THESE SMALLER PARTIES ON THE
LEFT AND RIGHT ARE GETTING
GREATER AND GREATER MARKET
SHARE.
AS HEATHER WAS JUST SAYING THEY
COULD GET UP TO 25% OF THE SEATS
IN THE EUROPE 350E7B PARLIAMENT.
IF THIS HAPPENS AND THE BACKLASH
CONTINUES THEN THE EUROPE 350E7B
PROJECT IS CALLED INTO QUESTION.
IT MAY STUMBLE.
WE MAY BE AT THE HIGH WATERMARK
OF AN INTEGRATED EUROPE.
>> WELL, I'M SO GLAD THE TWO OF
YOU ARE HERE TO TALK WITH US
ABOUT IT.
CHARLES KUPCHAN AND HEATHER
CONLEY.
>> THANK YOU.
ER STORM
COVERED A WIDE SWATH OF THE DEEP
SNOWTH ICE AND KNOCKED OUT POWER
TO SEVERAL HUNDRED THOUSAND
PEOPLE.
AND THE SENATE GAVE FINAL
CONGRESSIONAL AAPPROVAL TO
RAISING THE NATIONAL DEBT
CEILING.
>> ON "THE NEWS HOUR" ONLINE
RIGHT NOW, COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS
IS A CORNERSTONE OF ECONOMICS.
BUT ONLY PEOPLE.
NOT METRICS CAN SAY WHAT IS
WORTH COUNTING.
YOU CAN READS MORE ON OUR MAKING
CENTS PAGE, ON THE WEB SITE,
NewsHour.PBS.ORG.
>> Wooduff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND
GOODNIGHT.